docs/developing/http-apis.md, before:

Sandstorm apps may wish to respond to HTTP requests from Javascript code, native mobile apps, or
command-line tools, outside of the grain-frame. These clients sometimes need a permanent URL to
reach the app; the Sandstorm **HTTP APIs** feature allows apps to make specific parts of themselves
available this way.

## Overview

Sandstorm allows apps to expose their HTTP APIs at a permanent URL, as opposed to [ephemeral domains
used within the grain-frame](path.md). Sandstorm does access control on each inbound HTTP API
request to the app. Briefly:

- When Sandstorm receives a request for an app's HTTP API via a Sandstorm API subdomain, it verifies
  that the request has a valid API token, then passes it on to the app.

- When the app receives the HTTP request, the token has been removed and typical Sandstorm
  permission headers like `X-Sandstorm-User-Id` have been added instead.

- When the app responds, Sandstorm modifies some HTTP headers in the response, then passes the
  response to the client. This is flexible to any MIME type as well as to WebSockets.

**Try it now.** You can try making a request to a Sandstorm app's JSON API right now via `curl`:

```bash
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer 49Np9sqkYV4g_FpOQk1p0j1yJlvoHrZm9SVhQt7H2-9" https://alpha-api.sandstorm.io/
```

## Configuring an app to permit requests via the API subdomain

The handling of inbound HTTP API requests is configured in `sandstorm-pkgdef.capnp`. Look for this
line.

```bash
    # apiPath = "/api",
```

Before your app will accept requests on an API subdomain, you need to uncomment this line and
specify a string here. All inbound requests to the Sandstorm API subdomain for your app will have
their path prefixed by this string. The empty string (`""`) indicates that your app disallows API
requests; a single slash (`"/"`) indicates that your entire app should be available over the
Sandstorm API subdomain.

For apps not using `sandstorm-http-bridge`, read [the relevant Cap'n Proto
files](https://github.com/sandstorm-io/sandstorm/search?l=cap%27n-proto&type=Code&utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=ApiSession).

## How to generate an API token

Sandstorm uses API tokens to determine the which grain the user is requesting, the identity of the
user, and the permission level to apply to this request.

There are various ways to obtain an API token:

- **Recommended:** Client-side Javascript embedded within your app, aka *offer templates*. The app
  specifies some text which Sandstorm shows to the user, doing string substitution to add an API
  token to the text.

- The user can click the key icon in the top bar when they have an app open.

- Cap'n Proto RPC: Sandstorm's `HackSessionContext` exports a Cap'n Proto RPC method called
  `HackSessionContext.generateApiToken()`. That method is deprecated in favor of offer templates. If
  you need to use it, read the [web publishing guide](web-publishing.md) for more about how to
  access `HackSessionContext`.

In the future, we will implement an OAuth flow allowing a third party to initiate a request for
access to the user's apps.

### Creating an offer template

An _offer template_ is a way for an app to create an element that appears like a DIV, containing
text controlled by the app, which also has an API token inside. Because it is implemented with an
IFRAME, the app cannot read the token out of the offer template, which is good for app isolation.

You can see an example by launching [a GitWeb
demo](https://oasis.sandstorm.io/appdemo/6va4cjamc21j0znf5h5rrgnv0rpyvh1vaxurkrgknefvj0x63ash).

To create an offer template:

- Create full-width, 55-pixel-tall `IFRAME` element within your page with an ID of `offer-iframe`,
  with no margins so as to blend in seamlessly into your app. (The ID can be any valid ID, so long
  as you use the same one in a later step.) For example:

```html
<iframe style="width: 100%; height: 55px; margin: 0; border: 0;" id="offer-iframe">
</iframe>
```

- Modify your page so that when it loads, the page will ask Sandstorm to generate a URL with the
  text of the offer template. (The `rpcId` parameter can be any string, so long as you use the same
  one in this step and the next step. Sandstorm will echo it back with the response.)

```html
<script>
  function requestIframeURL() {
    var template = "You can use the $API_TOKEN key to reach me at $API_HOST.";
    window.parent.postMessage({renderTemplate: {
      rpcId: "0",
      template: template,
      clipboardButton: 'left'
    }}, "*");
  }

  document.addEventListener("DOMContentLoaded", requestIframeURL);
</script>
```

- Modify your page so that when Sandstorm provides the unique URL for this offer template, your page
  will place that URL into the `src` element of the IFRAME.

```html
<script>
  var copyIframeURLToElement = function(event) {
    if (event.data.rpcId === "0") {
      if (event.data.error) {
        console.log("ERROR: " + event.data.error);
      } else {
        var el = document.getElementById("offer-iframe");
        el.setAttribute("src", event.data.uri);
      }
    }
  };

  window.addEventListener("message", copyIframeURLToElement);
</script>
```

- Your offer template will now contain text such as this.

```html
You can use the DT5hkM18CejvQomjIM1AVT4zqQdOdoFCid898bP2hQS key to reach me at https://api-d9bc3de0bed9cb9b321d3c491c10dbca.alpha.sandstorm.io/.
```

**Note**: API tokens created this way must be used within 5 minutes,
or else they [automatically
expire](https://github.com/sandstorm-io/sandstorm/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=selfDestructDuration). To
prevent this from becoming a serious problem, the Sandstorm shell
automatically refreshes the IFRAME every 5 minutes.

### Parameters to renderTemplate()

`renderTemplate()` accepts the following parameters:

* `rpcId`: **String** of a message ID that will be passed back to your
  code.

* `template`: **String** to display to the user, where `$API_HOST`,
  `$API_TOKEN`, and `$GRAIN_TITLE_SLUG` will be replaced.

* `petname`: **String (optional)** of a name that this API token will
  have, when the user lists the API tokens and sharing links they have
  generated.

* `roleAssignment`: **roleAssignmentPattern (optional)** of
  permissions to apply to inbound requests. Use this to create API
  tokens with limited permissions, such as a read-only view.

* `forSharing`: **Boolean (optional)** true if this token should
  represent the anonymous user. You can use this to detach the token
  from the user who created it. **Note** that this also allows users
  to redeem it as a sharing link of the form
  `https://sandstorm.example.com/shared/$API_TOKEN`.

* `clipboardButton`: **String (optional)** to display a copy-to-clipboard
  button in either the top left or top right corner of the `IFRAME`.
  Valid values are `left` and `right`. Left unspecified, no button is shown.

### WebKeys

Sandstorm users can directly create an API token by clicking on the key icon within the [Sandstorm
top bar](../using/top-bar.md). This creates a [webkey](http://waterken.sourceforge.net/web-key/),
which is a combination of an endpoint URL and an API token separated by a `#`. An example is:

    https://alpha-api.sandstorm.io#49Np9sqkYV4g_FpOQk1p0j1yJlvoHrZm9SVhQt7H2-9

This format is intentionally chosen to look like a valid URL that could be opened in a
browser. Eventually, when such a URL is loaded directly in a browser, Sandstorm will show the user
information about the API and possibly offer the ability to explore the API and initiate requests
for debugging purposes. As of this writing, these features are not yet implemented.

The part of the webkey before the `#` is the API endpoint for the server (in this case, for
alpha.sandstorm.io). After the `#` is the API token.

## How to provide the API token with a request

There are two main ways to provide the API token to Sandstorm.

- **Recommended:** OAuth 2.0-style Bearer header. You can pass an `Authorization: Bearer foo` header
  with the HTTP request, replacing `foo` with the API token. For example:

```bash
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer 49Np9sqkYV4g_FpOQk1p0j1yJlvoHrZm9SVhQt7H2-9" https://alpha-api.sandstorm.io/
```

- HTTP Basic auth. You can use any username so long as you provide the API token as the password.
  For example,
  `https://anything:DT5hkM18CejvQomjIM1AVT4zqQdOdoFCid898bP2hQS@api-d9bc3de0bed9cb9b321d3c491c10dbca.alpha.sandstorm.io/`.

We recommend the Bearer header option because web browsers will not cache the API token (unlike
Basic auth), and because one cannot accidentally use the token in a web browser.

### WebSockets

Unfortunately, WebSockets have no way to set headers in most languages (specifically Javascript). To
work around this, you must pass the token as part of the URL path. It must be at the beginning of
the path and of the form:

```
/.sandstorm-token/<token>
```

For example:

```
wss://api-qxJ58hKANkbmJLQdSDk4.oasis.sandstorm.io/.sandstorm-token/RfNqni4FEHXkWC5B8v6t/some/path
```

The "/.sandstorm-token/&lt;token&gt;" part of the path will be stripped, and the remaining
segment of the path will be passed onto your app.


## API hostnames

Each API token has a unique subdomain of the server where it is allowed. This ensures that in the
unlikely case where if a web browser connects to the API endpoint, and if the browser ignores the
Content-Security-Policy header provided by Sandstorm, grains cannot communicate by storing data in
the browser that the other can read.

There is also a generic API hostname that allows all API tokens. However, if you make a request to
the generic API hostname using HTTP Basic auth, then those requests are subject to a [whitelist of
non-web-browser `User-Agent`
strings](https://github.com/sandstorm-io/sandstorm/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=isAllowedBasicAuthUserAgent). Therefore,
it is vastly easier to configure HTTP clients to use the token-specific hostname.

## Header modification by Sandstorm

Sandstorm sanitizes HTTP request and response headers it does not recognize, and adds a few response
headers.

- Sandstorm applies a CORS header of `Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *` to allow Javascript on any
  domain to interact with the app's API. This is safe because the API token serves as the
  access control.

- Sandstorm applies a `Content-Security-Policy: default-src "none"; sandbox` header to ensure that
  if you visit an API host within a web browser, the browser will prevent the API host from reaching
  other domains. This helps keeps the app confined.

- Sandstorm removes cookie-related headers because cookies are not allowed within the Sandstorm HTTP
  API system. The API token should be used for access control.

- Sandstorm applies a HTTP request and response header whitelist because some HTTP headers modify
  the meaning of the request, and we do not have a full list of safe headers. If your app needs HTTP
  headers that Sandstorm does not support, please file an issue similar to [this
  one](https://github.com/sandstorm-io/sandstorm/issues/1897) and accept our apologies.

If you run into trouble with Sandstorm's header modification, please email the [sandstorm-dev Google
Group](groups.google.com/d/forum/sandstorm-dev).

### Getting the user IP address

One special request header modifies Sandstorm's privacy defaults. By default, Sandstorm removes the
user's IP address from API requests. The API **client code** can request that Sandstorm pass the IP
address to the grain by setting a request header on the API call:

```
X-Sandstorm-Passthrough: address
```

When the app receives the request from Sandstorm, it will be enriched by a `X-Real-IP` request
header containing the API user's IP address, assuming it is using `sandstorm-http-bridge`.

If you want to capture IP address by default for your app, you can distribute sample Javascript code
with the app that sets the `X-Sandstorm-Passthrough` header on `XMLHttpRequest` calls. One app that
does this is
[Piwik](https://apps.sandstorm.io/app/xuajusd5d4a9v4js71ru0cwj9wn984q1x8kny10htsp8f5dcfep0).

Commit message:

Support setting the foreground color for offer iframes.
Fixes #3646

docs/developing/http-apis.md, after:

Sandstorm apps may wish to respond to HTTP requests from Javascript code, native mobile apps, or
command-line tools, outside of the grain-frame. These clients sometimes need a permanent URL to
reach the app; the Sandstorm **HTTP APIs** feature allows apps to make specific parts of themselves
available this way.

## Overview

Sandstorm allows apps to expose their HTTP APIs at a permanent URL, as opposed to [ephemeral domains
used within the grain-frame](path.md). Sandstorm does access control on each inbound HTTP API
request to the app. Briefly:

- When Sandstorm receives a request for an app's HTTP API via a Sandstorm API subdomain, it verifies
  that the request has a valid API token, then passes it on to the app.

- When the app receives the HTTP request, the token has been removed and typical Sandstorm
  permission headers like `X-Sandstorm-User-Id` have been added instead.

- When the app responds, Sandstorm modifies some HTTP headers in the response, then passes the
  response to the client. This is flexible to any MIME type as well as to WebSockets.

**Try it now.** You can try making a request to a Sandstorm app's JSON API right now via `curl`:

```bash
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer 49Np9sqkYV4g_FpOQk1p0j1yJlvoHrZm9SVhQt7H2-9" https://alpha-api.sandstorm.io/
```

## Configuring an app to permit requests via the API subdomain

The handling of inbound HTTP API requests is configured in `sandstorm-pkgdef.capnp`. Look for this
line.

```bash
    # apiPath = "/api",
```

Before your app will accept requests on an API subdomain, you need to uncomment this line and
specify a string here. All inbound requests to the Sandstorm API subdomain for your app will have
their path prefixed by this string. The empty string (`""`) indicates that your app disallows API
requests; a single slash (`"/"`) indicates that your entire app should be available over the
Sandstorm API subdomain.

For apps not using `sandstorm-http-bridge`, read [the relevant Cap'n Proto
files](https://github.com/sandstorm-io/sandstorm/search?l=cap%27n-proto&type=Code&utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=ApiSession).

## How to generate an API token

Sandstorm uses API tokens to determine the which grain the user is requesting, the identity of the
user, and the permission level to apply to this request.

There are various ways to obtain an API token:

- **Recommended:** Client-side Javascript embedded within your app, aka *offer templates*. The app
  specifies some text which Sandstorm shows to the user, doing string substitution to add an API
  token to the text.

- The user can click the key icon in the top bar when they have an app open.

- Cap'n Proto RPC: Sandstorm's `HackSessionContext` exports a Cap'n Proto RPC method called
  `HackSessionContext.generateApiToken()`. That method is deprecated in favor of offer templates. If
  you need to use it, read the [web publishing guide](web-publishing.md) for more about how to
  access `HackSessionContext`.

In the future, we will implement an OAuth flow allowing a third party to initiate a request for
access to the user's apps.

### Creating an offer template

An _offer template_ is a way for an app to create an element that appears like a DIV, containing
text controlled by the app, which also has an API token inside. Because it is implemented with an
IFRAME, the app cannot read the token out of the offer template, which is good for app isolation.

You can see an example by launching [a GitWeb
demo](https://oasis.sandstorm.io/appdemo/6va4cjamc21j0znf5h5rrgnv0rpyvh1vaxurkrgknefvj0x63ash).

To create an offer template:

- Create full-width, 55-pixel-tall `IFRAME` element within your page with an ID of `offer-iframe`,
  with no margins so as to blend in seamlessly into your app. (The ID can be any valid ID, so long
  as you use the same one in a later step.) For example:

```html
<iframe style="width: 100%; height: 55px; margin: 0; border: 0;" id="offer-iframe">
</iframe>
```

- Modify your page so that when it loads, the page will ask Sandstorm to generate a URL with the
  text of the offer template. (The `rpcId` parameter can be any string, so long as you use the same
  one in this step and the next step. Sandstorm will echo it back with the response.)

```html
<script>
  function requestIframeURL() {
    var template = "You can use the $API_TOKEN key to reach me at $API_HOST.";
    window.parent.postMessage({renderTemplate: {
      rpcId: "0",
      template: template,
      clipboardButton: 'left'
    }}, "*");
  }

  document.addEventListener("DOMContentLoaded", requestIframeURL);
</script>
```

- Modify your page so that when Sandstorm provides the unique URL for this offer template, your page
  will place that URL into the `src` element of the IFRAME.

```html
<script>
  var copyIframeURLToElement = function(event) {
    if (event.data.rpcId === "0") {
      if (event.data.error) {
        console.log("ERROR: " + event.data.error);
      } else {
        var el = document.getElementById("offer-iframe");
        el.setAttribute("src", event.data.uri);
      }
    }
  };

  window.addEventListener("message", copyIframeURLToElement);
</script>
```

- Your offer template will now contain text such as this.

```html
You can use the DT5hkM18CejvQomjIM1AVT4zqQdOdoFCid898bP2hQS key to reach me at https://api-d9bc3de0bed9cb9b321d3c491c10dbca.alpha.sandstorm.io/.
```

**Note**: API tokens created this way must be used within 5 minutes,
or else they [automatically
expire](https://github.com/sandstorm-io/sandstorm/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=selfDestructDuration). To
prevent this from becoming a serious problem, the Sandstorm shell
automatically refreshes the IFRAME every 5 minutes.

### Parameters to renderTemplate()

`renderTemplate()` accepts the following parameters:

* `rpcId`: **String** of a message ID that will be passed back to your
  code.

* `template`: **String** to display to the user, where `$API_HOST`,
  `$API_TOKEN`, and `$GRAIN_TITLE_SLUG` will be replaced.

* `petname`: **String (optional)** of a name that this API token will
  have, when the user lists the API tokens and sharing links they have
  generated.

* `roleAssignment`: **roleAssignmentPattern (optional)** of
  permissions to apply to inbound requests. Use this to create API
  tokens with limited permissions, such as a read-only view.

* `forSharing`: **Boolean (optional)** true if this token should
  represent the anonymous user. You can use this to detach the token
  from the user who created it. **Note** that this also allows users
  to redeem it as a sharing link of the form
  `https://sandstorm.example.com/shared/$API_TOKEN`.

* `clipboardButton`: **String (optional)** to display a copy-to-clipboard
  button in either the top left or top right corner of the `IFRAME`.
  Valid values are `left` and `right`. Left unspecified, no button is shown.

* `style`: **Object (optional)** additional styling to apply to the body
  of the iframe. Note that some styles (e.g. background-color) can be
  set by styling the iframe element itself. We only support the
  following properties:
  * `color`: **String (optional)** The text color. Defaults to black,
    syntax is 6-hex-digit css form, like `#ff00ff` (other ways of
    specifying colors are not supported).

### WebKeys

Sandstorm users can directly create an API token by clicking on the key icon within the [Sandstorm
top bar](../using/top-bar.md). This creates a [webkey](http://waterken.sourceforge.net/web-key/),
which is a combination of an endpoint URL and an API token separated by a `#`. An example is:

    https://alpha-api.sandstorm.io#49Np9sqkYV4g_FpOQk1p0j1yJlvoHrZm9SVhQt7H2-9

This format is intentionally chosen to look like a valid URL that could be opened in a
browser. Eventually, when such a URL is loaded directly in a browser, Sandstorm will show the user
information about the API and possibly offer the ability to explore the API and initiate requests
for debugging purposes. As of this writing, these features are not yet implemented.

The part of the webkey before the `#` is the API endpoint for the server (in this case, for
alpha.sandstorm.io). After the `#` is the API token.

## How to provide the API token with a request

There are two main ways to provide the API token to Sandstorm.

- **Recommended:** OAuth 2.0-style Bearer header. You can pass an `Authorization: Bearer foo` header
  with the HTTP request, replacing `foo` with the API token. For example:

```bash
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer 49Np9sqkYV4g_FpOQk1p0j1yJlvoHrZm9SVhQt7H2-9" https://alpha-api.sandstorm.io/
```

- HTTP Basic auth. You can use any username so long as you provide the API token as the password.
  For example,
  `https://anything:DT5hkM18CejvQomjIM1AVT4zqQdOdoFCid898bP2hQS@api-d9bc3de0bed9cb9b321d3c491c10dbca.alpha.sandstorm.io/`.

We recommend the Bearer header option because web browsers will not cache the API token (unlike
Basic auth), and because one cannot accidentally use the token in a web browser.

### WebSockets

Unfortunately, WebSockets have no way to set headers in most languages (specifically Javascript). To
work around this, you must pass the token as part of the URL path. It must be at the beginning of
the path and of the form:

```
/.sandstorm-token/<token>
```

For example:

```
wss://api-qxJ58hKANkbmJLQdSDk4.oasis.sandstorm.io/.sandstorm-token/RfNqni4FEHXkWC5B8v6t/some/path
```

The "/.sandstorm-token/&lt;token&gt;" part of the path will be stripped, and the remaining
segment of the path will be passed onto your app.


## API hostnames

Each API token has a unique subdomain of the server where it is allowed. This ensures that in the
unlikely case where if a web browser connects to the API endpoint, and if the browser ignores the
Content-Security-Policy header provided by Sandstorm, grains cannot communicate by storing data in
the browser that the other can read.

There is also a generic API hostname that allows all API tokens. However, if you make a request to
the generic API hostname using HTTP Basic auth, then those requests are subject to a [whitelist of
non-web-browser `User-Agent`
strings](https://github.com/sandstorm-io/sandstorm/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=isAllowedBasicAuthUserAgent). Therefore,
it is vastly easier to configure HTTP clients to use the token-specific hostname.

## Header modification by Sandstorm

Sandstorm sanitizes HTTP request and response headers it does not recognize, and adds a few response
headers.

- Sandstorm applies a CORS header of `Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *` to allow Javascript on any
  domain to interact with the app's API. This is safe because the API token serves as the
  access control.

- Sandstorm applies a `Content-Security-Policy: default-src "none"; sandbox` header to ensure that
  if you visit an API host within a web browser, the browser will prevent the API host from reaching
  other domains. This helps keeps the app confined.

- Sandstorm removes cookie-related headers because cookies are not allowed within the Sandstorm HTTP
  API system. The API token should be used for access control.

- Sandstorm applies a HTTP request and response header whitelist because some HTTP headers modify
  the meaning of the request, and we do not have a full list of safe headers. If your app needs HTTP
  headers that Sandstorm does not support, please file an issue similar to [this
  one](https://github.com/sandstorm-io/sandstorm/issues/1897) and accept our apologies.

If you run into trouble with Sandstorm's header modification, please email the [sandstorm-dev Google
Group](groups.google.com/d/forum/sandstorm-dev).

### Getting the user IP address

One special request header modifies Sandstorm's privacy defaults. By default, Sandstorm removes the
user's IP address from API requests. The API **client code** can request that Sandstorm pass the IP
address to the grain by setting a request header on the API call:

```
X-Sandstorm-Passthrough: address
```

When the app receives the request from Sandstorm, it will be enriched by a `X-Real-IP` request
header containing the API user's IP address, assuming it is using `sandstorm-http-bridge`.

If you want to capture IP address by default for your app, you can distribute sample Javascript code
with the app that sets the `X-Sandstorm-Passthrough` header on `XMLHttpRequest` calls. One app that
does this is
[Piwik](https://apps.sandstorm.io/app/xuajusd5d4a9v4js71ru0cwj9wn984q1x8kny10htsp8f5dcfep0).
