README.md, before:

# Sandstorm

Sandstorm makes it easy to run your own server.

Use Sandstorm to install apps to create [documents](https://apps.sandstorm.io/app/h37dm17aa89yrd8zuqpdn36p6zntumtv08fjpu8a8zrte7q1cn60),
[spreadsheets](https://apps.sandstorm.io/app/a0n6hwm32zjsrzes8gnjg734dh6jwt7x83xdgytspe761pe2asw0), [blogs](https://apps.sandstorm.io/app/aax9j672p6z8n7nyupzvj2nmumeqd4upa0f7mgu8gprwmy53x04h),
[git repos](https://apps.sandstorm.io/app/zx9d3pt0fjh4uqrprjftgpqfwgzp6y2ena6098ug3ctv37uv6kfh), [task lists](https://apps.sandstorm.io/app/m86q05rdvj14yvn78ghaxynqz7u2svw6rnttptxx49g1785cdv1h), and
[more](https://apps.sandstorm.io/) as easily as you'd install apps on your
phone.

Sandstorm is open source and can be installed on any x86-64 Linux
system.

* Read more at: https://sandstorm.io/
* Try the demo: https://demo.sandstorm.io/
* Documentation available at: https://docs.sandstorm.io/

## Caveats

Sandstorm is in early beta. Lots of features are not done yet, and more review
needs to be done before relying on it for mission-critical tasks.
That said, we use it ourselves to get work done every day, and we hope you'll
find it useful as well.

## Installing

See [installation instructions in the Sandstorm documentation](https://docs.sandstorm.io/en/latest/install/).

## Using Sandstorm

See [the overview in the Sandstorm documentation](https://docs.sandstorm.io/en/latest/overview/).

## How It Works

See [how it works](https://sandstorm.io/how-it-works) and [security practices](https://docs.sandstorm.io/en/latest/using/security-practices/) in the Sandstorm documentation.

## How to Package Apps

See [the developer hub in the Sandstorm documentation](https://docs.sandstorm.io/en/latest/developing/).

## Contribute

Want to help?  See our [community page](https://sandstorm.io/community) or get on our [discussion group](https://groups.google.com/group/sandstorm-dev) and let us know!

Commit message:

Indicate that it's a productivity suite

README.md, after:

# Sandstorm

Sandstorm is a self-hostable web productivity suite. It's implemented as a security-hardened web app package manager. Sandstorm makes it easy to run your own server.

Use Sandstorm to install apps to create [documents](https://apps.sandstorm.io/app/h37dm17aa89yrd8zuqpdn36p6zntumtv08fjpu8a8zrte7q1cn60),
[spreadsheets](https://apps.sandstorm.io/app/a0n6hwm32zjsrzes8gnjg734dh6jwt7x83xdgytspe761pe2asw0), [blogs](https://apps.sandstorm.io/app/aax9j672p6z8n7nyupzvj2nmumeqd4upa0f7mgu8gprwmy53x04h),
[git repos](https://apps.sandstorm.io/app/zx9d3pt0fjh4uqrprjftgpqfwgzp6y2ena6098ug3ctv37uv6kfh), [task lists](https://apps.sandstorm.io/app/m86q05rdvj14yvn78ghaxynqz7u2svw6rnttptxx49g1785cdv1h), and
[more](https://apps.sandstorm.io/) as easily as you'd install apps on your
phone.

Sandstorm is open source and can be installed on any x86-64 Linux
system.

* Read more at: https://sandstorm.io/
* Try the demo: https://demo.sandstorm.io/
* Documentation available at: https://docs.sandstorm.io/

## Caveats

Sandstorm is in early beta. Lots of features are not done yet, and more review
needs to be done before relying on it for mission-critical tasks.
That said, we use it ourselves to get work done every day, and we hope you'll
find it useful as well.

## Installing

See [installation instructions in the Sandstorm documentation](https://docs.sandstorm.io/en/latest/install/).

## Using Sandstorm

See [the overview in the Sandstorm documentation](https://docs.sandstorm.io/en/latest/overview/).

## How It Works

See [how it works](https://sandstorm.io/how-it-works) and [security practices](https://docs.sandstorm.io/en/latest/using/security-practices/) in the Sandstorm documentation.

## How to Package Apps

See [the developer hub in the Sandstorm documentation](https://docs.sandstorm.io/en/latest/developing/).

## Contribute

Want to help?  See our [community page](https://sandstorm.io/community) or get on our [discussion group](https://groups.google.com/group/sandstorm-dev) and let us know!
