docs/administering/active-directory.md, before:

This document explains how to integrate with Microsoft Active Directory (also known as AD).  This
allows all users, or specific users within your Windows domain, to log into a Sandstorm server.

## AD & Sandstorm: Overview

Sandstorm can rely on AD to authenticate users.

Active Directory exists as part of a cloud product called Windows Azure as well as a software
product called Windows Server. Sandstorm supports both products.

Sandstorm can be configured to use single sign-on in a configuration where AD has full control over
the login form, allowing you to enjoy AD's support for multi-factor authentication, Windows
credentials login, and a consistent sign-in experience for all apps within your organization. As a
security benefit, the Sandstorm software never sees the user's passwords. This relies on Sandstorm's
support for SAML 2.0.

This document provides textual advice as well as a great deal of screenshots to allow you to proceed
with confidence. If you have questions, please email support@sandstorm.io. We want to help you
successfully set up Sandstorm!

Note that you can also set up Sandstorm to integrate with Active Directory using LDAP bind to
authenticate users. We recommend Active Directory Federation Services or Microsoft Azure AD Single
Sign-On instead. Both of these products use SAML for authentication. If you must use LDAP bind for
authentication instead, see the general [documentation about
LDAP](for-work.md#authentication-provider-ldap) or email support@sandstorm.io.

## Windows Azure Active Directory

**Summary:** Once you have created a directory, you must add a new **application from the gallery,**
configure Sandstorm as a **custom app,** then enable **Microsoft Azure AD Single Sign-On.** This
process will involve Azure AD creating a SAML provider entry point URL and a custom SAML
certificate. Once you have done this, you can use Active Directory to choose which users in your
domain are allowed to use Sandstorm.

Here is a screenshot tour, using example.sandcats.io as an example Sandstorm server.

These instructions use the Classic Azure Active Directory portal found at
[manage.windowsazure.com.](https://manage.windowsazure.com) If you are using the new portal at
portal.azure.com, please click on "classic portal" or browse to manage.windowsazure.com in order to
follow these instructions.

- Go to: manage.windowsazure.com

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/01.png)

- Click "Active Directory" in the sidebar.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/02.png)

- Choose the directory you wish to use to sign into Sandstorm.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/03.png)

- Click "Applications" in the top bar.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/04.png)

- Choose "Add" from the bottom bar (NOT "+ New").

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/05.png)

- Choose "Add an application from the gallery"

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/07.png)

- Choose "custom" from the sidebar. Choose "Add an unlisted application my organization is using".

    - If this option is not displayed: Make sure you are using the classic portal. At the time of
      writing, Microsoft is still working on adding this option to the new portal. This option may
      require upgrading to Azure AD Premium.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/08.png)

- Enter name: "Sandstorm". Click the checkmark in the lower-right.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/09.png)

- Choose "Configure single sign-on"

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/10.png)

- Choose "Microsoft Azure AD Single Sign-On". Click the "next" arrow.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/11.png)

- Now, visit your Sandstorm server and begin configuring SAML login. In the Sandstorm SAML config, adjust the "Entity ID" to be the full URL to your Sandstorm server, including the leading "https://", which you will also use as the Azure AD "Identifier". Azure AD requires that the entity ID be a full URL, not a hostname. You will also need to copy the Sandstorm server's Service URL to your clipboard.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/13-blanked.png)

- Return to the Microsoft Azure AD page in your web browser. For "Identifier", enter the Sandstorm server's URL. (Example: "https://example.sandcats.io") For "Reply URL", enter the Sandstorm server's Service URL from the Sandstorm SAML config. (Example: "https://example.sandcats.io/_saml/validate/default"). Click the "next" arrow.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/12.png)

- Click "Download Certificate (Base 64 - most common)".

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/14.png)

- Open the certificate file in a text editor (such as Notepad).

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/15.png)

- Copy/paste the contents of the file into Sandstorm's SAML login configuration under "SAML cert for above provider:".

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/13.png)

- Back in the Azure AD configuration, copy the line titled "Single Sign-On Service URL". In the Sandstorm config, paste this under "SAML provider entry point URL:".

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/16.png)

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/13.png)

- In the Azure AD config, check the box: "Confirm that you have configured single sign-on as
  described above." Click the "next" arrow.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/17.png)

- Enter your email address for service alerts from Microsoft. Click
  the checkbox to complete configuration.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/18.png)

- Click "Assign accounts".

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/10.png)

- Click: "Users and Groups", then "All Users". Click the check-mark to request Sandstorm access for
  all users.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/22.png)

- The system will ask you if you are sure. Click "Yes" to confirm.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/23.png)

**Congratulations!** You have enabled Sandstorm for all the users in your Microsoft Azure Active Directory service.

## Windows Server Active Directory

**Summary:** Once you have created a directory, you must use Active Directory Federation Services to
add a new Relying Party, namely the Sandstorm web application. Each Sandstorm server publishes
federation metadata information at a URL available within the SAML configuration page.  You must
configure a rule that sends the user email address to Sandstorm, as well as a rule that declares
email addresses are the persistent identifier. You must also export the custom SAML certificate to
Sandstorm.  Once you have done this, you can use Active Directory to choose which users in your
domain are allowed to use Sandstorm.

To connect to Active Directory via SAML, you must enable Active Directory Federation Services (AD
FS). We will assume you have already done this. We also assume that your users' web browsers can
reach the the Sandstorm server as well as the AD server. With SAML, all communication between the
Service Provider (Sandstorm) and the Identity Provider (AD) is through the browser. The only
server-to-server communication happens during setup, where AD FS fetches a configuration XML file
from Sandstorm. If desired, the admin can avoid this server-to-server communication be by
downloading the XML from Sandstorm and then uploading it to AD separately.

Note that AD FS requires that your Sandstorm server supports HTTPS with a valid certificate. You can
use a private CA for this, but setting up a private CA is beyond the scope of this document.

Here is a screenshot tour, using example.sandcats.io as an example Sandstorm server.

### Part 1: Configure AD FS

- Open the AD FS management UI.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/01.png)

- In the left sidebar, browse to: "Trust Relationships > Relying Party Trusts". In the right sidebar, click: "Add Relying Party Trust...".

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/02.png)

- You will see the "Add Relying Party Trust Wizard." Click "Start."

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/03.png)

- At this time, open the Sandstorm SAML configuration interface in a new browser tab. Take note of
  the Sandstorm service provider metadata URL. This is typically of the form:
  https://example.sandcats.io/_saml/config/default

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/26-blanked.png)

- Back in the "Add Relying Party Trust Wizard," choose the radio button for: "Import data about the
  relying party published online or on a local network".  Under "Federation metadata address (host
  name or URL)", enter the address of Sandstorm server's service URL. This is typically of the form:
  https://example.sandcats.io/_saml/config/default . Then, click Next.

    - If your Sandstorm server does not support HTTPS, AD FS will complain at this point. Do NOT try to work around this by downloading the metadata and feeding it to AD FS manually. If you do that, AD FS may appear to accept the metadata, but it will leave all the endpoints unconfigured, because AD FS will not accept a non-HTTPS endpoint.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/04.png)

- Choose a display name (for example, the server's hostname like example.sandcats.io) and notes if
  desired, then click "Next".

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/05.png)

- Choose whether to configure multi-factor authentication and click "Next". (Configuring
  multi-factor is beyond the scope of this document.)

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/06.png)

- Choose "Permit all users to access this relying party" and click "Next".

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/07.png)

- Review your choices and click "Next".

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/08.png)

- Check the box for: "Open the Edit Claim Rules dialog for this relying party trust when the wizard closes".
  Then, click Close.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/09.png)

- The "Edit Claim Rules" dialog appears. Click "Add Rule..."

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/10.png)

- Under "Claim rule template", choose: "Send LDAP Attributes as Claims". Then click "Next."

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/11.png)

- Under "Claim rule name", enter: "Send e-mail address" (or any name you want). Use "Active
  Directory" as the attribute store. Configure the LDAP Attribute as E-Mail Addresses and the
  Outgoing Claim Type as E-Mail Address. Then click "Finish."

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/12.png)

- Click "Add Rule...".

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/13.png)

- Under "Claim rule template", choose: "Transform an Incoming Claim". Click "Next."

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/14.png)

- Under "Claim rule name", enter: "Assign name ID from e-mail address" (or any name you want). Configure the
  Incoming claim type as "E-Mail Address" and set the Outgoing claim type to "Name ID." Set the Outgoing
  format to "Persistent Identifier." Choose to "Pass through all claim values." Finally, click "Finish."

    - NOTE: This differs from many other services. Do NOT choose "Email" here. You MUST choose
      "Persistent Identifier". This is because Sandstorm allows an advanced administrator to choose
      a different user attribute to use as the primary identifier. For example, if your system has a
      notion of numeric user IDs that never change, you could use that as the Name ID instead. This
      way, you could change a user's e-mail address in the future without requiring that they
      transfer all of their Sandstorm data to a new account. However, most administrators choose to
      use e-mail addresses as the primary identifier, accepting that this means that e-mail
      addresses can never change.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/15.png)

- Click "OK" to finish editing claim rules.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/16.png)



### Part 2: Extract your certificate

- Open the AD FS management UI. In the left sidebar, browse to: "Service > Certificates".

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/17.png)

- Click on the certificate under "Token-signing" to select it.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/18.png)

- Click "View Certificate..." In the Certificate dialog, go to the "Details" tab.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/19.png)

- In the "Details" tab, click "Copy to File..."

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/20.png)

- The Certificate Export Wizard appears. Click "Next".

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/21.png)

- Choose the radio button for: "Base-64 encoded X.509 (.CER)". Click "Next."

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/22.png)

- Choose where to save the certificate. Click "Next."

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/23.png)

- Review the "Completing the Certificate Export Wizard" information, then click "Finish."

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/24.png)

- Open the certificate file using a text editor, such as Notepad. You will need to copy/paste this next in the next part.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/25.png)

### Part 3: Configure Sandstorm

- Open Sandstorm's SAML login configuration.

    - Under "SAML provider entry point URL", enter your AD FS login entry point. This is usually
      "/adfs/ls" at the host associated with your Active Directory server. For example, if your Active
      Directory server is ad.example.com, the URL would be: https://ad.example.com/adfs/ls

    - Under "SAML cert for above provider", copy the contents of the certificate you extracted in part
      2, above.

    - For the entity ID, keep the Sandstorm default, which is your server hostname. For example,
      example.sandcats.io. If you change this value, logins will not work until you resynchronize AD
      FS with Sandstorm's SAML metadata.

    - Finally, click "Save."

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/26.png)

This concludes setting up Windows Server Active Directory with Sandstorm! If you have any questions
or need further help, please email support@sandstorm.io! We'd be honored to work with you to get
your server set up properly.

Commit message:

Docs: Remove calls to email

docs/administering/active-directory.md, after:

This document explains how to integrate with Microsoft Active Directory (also known as AD).  This
allows all users, or specific users within your Windows domain, to log into a Sandstorm server.

## AD & Sandstorm: Overview

Sandstorm can rely on AD to authenticate users.

Active Directory exists as part of a cloud product called Windows Azure as well as a software
product called Windows Server. Sandstorm supports both products.

Sandstorm can be configured to use single sign-on in a configuration where AD has full control over
the login form, allowing you to enjoy AD's support for multi-factor authentication, Windows
credentials login, and a consistent sign-in experience for all apps within your organization. As a
security benefit, the Sandstorm software never sees the user's passwords. This relies on Sandstorm's
support for SAML 2.0.

This document provides textual advice as well as a great deal of screenshots to allow you to proceed
with confidence. If you have questions, please [open an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/sandstorm-io/sandstorm/issues/new). We want to help you
successfully set up Sandstorm!

Note that you can also set up Sandstorm to integrate with Active Directory using LDAP bind to
authenticate users. We recommend Active Directory Federation Services or Microsoft Azure AD Single
Sign-On instead. Both of these products use SAML for authentication. If you must use LDAP bind for
authentication instead, see the general [documentation about
LDAP](for-work.md#authentication-provider-ldap).

## Windows Azure Active Directory

**Summary:** Once you have created a directory, you must add a new **application from the gallery,**
configure Sandstorm as a **custom app,** then enable **Microsoft Azure AD Single Sign-On.** This
process will involve Azure AD creating a SAML provider entry point URL and a custom SAML
certificate. Once you have done this, you can use Active Directory to choose which users in your
domain are allowed to use Sandstorm.

Here is a screenshot tour, using example.sandcats.io as an example Sandstorm server.

These instructions use the Classic Azure Active Directory portal found at
[manage.windowsazure.com.](https://manage.windowsazure.com) If you are using the new portal at
portal.azure.com, please click on "classic portal" or browse to manage.windowsazure.com in order to
follow these instructions.

- Go to: manage.windowsazure.com

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/01.png)

- Click "Active Directory" in the sidebar.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/02.png)

- Choose the directory you wish to use to sign into Sandstorm.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/03.png)

- Click "Applications" in the top bar.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/04.png)

- Choose "Add" from the bottom bar (NOT "+ New").

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/05.png)

- Choose "Add an application from the gallery"

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/07.png)

- Choose "custom" from the sidebar. Choose "Add an unlisted application my organization is using".

    - If this option is not displayed: Make sure you are using the classic portal. At the time of
      writing, Microsoft is still working on adding this option to the new portal. This option may
      require upgrading to Azure AD Premium.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/08.png)

- Enter name: "Sandstorm". Click the checkmark in the lower-right.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/09.png)

- Choose "Configure single sign-on"

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/10.png)

- Choose "Microsoft Azure AD Single Sign-On". Click the "next" arrow.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/11.png)

- Now, visit your Sandstorm server and begin configuring SAML login. In the Sandstorm SAML config, adjust the "Entity ID" to be the full URL to your Sandstorm server, including the leading "https://", which you will also use as the Azure AD "Identifier". Azure AD requires that the entity ID be a full URL, not a hostname. You will also need to copy the Sandstorm server's Service URL to your clipboard.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/13-blanked.png)

- Return to the Microsoft Azure AD page in your web browser. For "Identifier", enter the Sandstorm server's URL. (Example: "https://example.sandcats.io") For "Reply URL", enter the Sandstorm server's Service URL from the Sandstorm SAML config. (Example: "https://example.sandcats.io/_saml/validate/default"). Click the "next" arrow.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/12.png)

- Click "Download Certificate (Base 64 - most common)".

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/14.png)

- Open the certificate file in a text editor (such as Notepad).

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/15.png)

- Copy/paste the contents of the file into Sandstorm's SAML login configuration under "SAML cert for above provider:".

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/13.png)

- Back in the Azure AD configuration, copy the line titled "Single Sign-On Service URL". In the Sandstorm config, paste this under "SAML provider entry point URL:".

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/16.png)

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/13.png)

- In the Azure AD config, check the box: "Confirm that you have configured single sign-on as
  described above." Click the "next" arrow.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/17.png)

- Enter your email address for service alerts from Microsoft. Click
  the checkbox to complete configuration.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/18.png)

- Click "Assign accounts".

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/10.png)

- Click: "Users and Groups", then "All Users". Click the check-mark to request Sandstorm access for
  all users.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/22.png)

- The system will ask you if you are sure. Click "Yes" to confirm.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/azure-ad-config/23.png)

**Congratulations!** You have enabled Sandstorm for all the users in your Microsoft Azure Active Directory service.

## Windows Server Active Directory

**Summary:** Once you have created a directory, you must use Active Directory Federation Services to
add a new Relying Party, namely the Sandstorm web application. Each Sandstorm server publishes
federation metadata information at a URL available within the SAML configuration page.  You must
configure a rule that sends the user email address to Sandstorm, as well as a rule that declares
email addresses are the persistent identifier. You must also export the custom SAML certificate to
Sandstorm.  Once you have done this, you can use Active Directory to choose which users in your
domain are allowed to use Sandstorm.

To connect to Active Directory via SAML, you must enable Active Directory Federation Services (AD
FS). We will assume you have already done this. We also assume that your users' web browsers can
reach the the Sandstorm server as well as the AD server. With SAML, all communication between the
Service Provider (Sandstorm) and the Identity Provider (AD) is through the browser. The only
server-to-server communication happens during setup, where AD FS fetches a configuration XML file
from Sandstorm. If desired, the admin can avoid this server-to-server communication be by
downloading the XML from Sandstorm and then uploading it to AD separately.

Note that AD FS requires that your Sandstorm server supports HTTPS with a valid certificate. You can
use a private CA for this, but setting up a private CA is beyond the scope of this document.

Here is a screenshot tour, using example.sandcats.io as an example Sandstorm server.

### Part 1: Configure AD FS

- Open the AD FS management UI.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/01.png)

- In the left sidebar, browse to: "Trust Relationships > Relying Party Trusts". In the right sidebar, click: "Add Relying Party Trust...".

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/02.png)

- You will see the "Add Relying Party Trust Wizard." Click "Start."

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/03.png)

- At this time, open the Sandstorm SAML configuration interface in a new browser tab. Take note of
  the Sandstorm service provider metadata URL. This is typically of the form:
  https://example.sandcats.io/_saml/config/default

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/26-blanked.png)

- Back in the "Add Relying Party Trust Wizard," choose the radio button for: "Import data about the
  relying party published online or on a local network".  Under "Federation metadata address (host
  name or URL)", enter the address of Sandstorm server's service URL. This is typically of the form:
  https://example.sandcats.io/_saml/config/default . Then, click Next.

    - If your Sandstorm server does not support HTTPS, AD FS will complain at this point. Do NOT try to work around this by downloading the metadata and feeding it to AD FS manually. If you do that, AD FS may appear to accept the metadata, but it will leave all the endpoints unconfigured, because AD FS will not accept a non-HTTPS endpoint.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/04.png)

- Choose a display name (for example, the server's hostname like example.sandcats.io) and notes if
  desired, then click "Next".

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/05.png)

- Choose whether to configure multi-factor authentication and click "Next". (Configuring
  multi-factor is beyond the scope of this document.)

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/06.png)

- Choose "Permit all users to access this relying party" and click "Next".

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/07.png)

- Review your choices and click "Next".

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/08.png)

- Check the box for: "Open the Edit Claim Rules dialog for this relying party trust when the wizard closes".
  Then, click Close.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/09.png)

- The "Edit Claim Rules" dialog appears. Click "Add Rule..."

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/10.png)

- Under "Claim rule template", choose: "Send LDAP Attributes as Claims". Then click "Next."

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/11.png)

- Under "Claim rule name", enter: "Send e-mail address" (or any name you want). Use "Active
  Directory" as the attribute store. Configure the LDAP Attribute as E-Mail Addresses and the
  Outgoing Claim Type as E-Mail Address. Then click "Finish."

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/12.png)

- Click "Add Rule...".

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/13.png)

- Under "Claim rule template", choose: "Transform an Incoming Claim". Click "Next."

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/14.png)

- Under "Claim rule name", enter: "Assign name ID from e-mail address" (or any name you want). Configure the
  Incoming claim type as "E-Mail Address" and set the Outgoing claim type to "Name ID." Set the Outgoing
  format to "Persistent Identifier." Choose to "Pass through all claim values." Finally, click "Finish."

    - NOTE: This differs from many other services. Do NOT choose "Email" here. You MUST choose
      "Persistent Identifier". This is because Sandstorm allows an advanced administrator to choose
      a different user attribute to use as the primary identifier. For example, if your system has a
      notion of numeric user IDs that never change, you could use that as the Name ID instead. This
      way, you could change a user's e-mail address in the future without requiring that they
      transfer all of their Sandstorm data to a new account. However, most administrators choose to
      use e-mail addresses as the primary identifier, accepting that this means that e-mail
      addresses can never change.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/15.png)

- Click "OK" to finish editing claim rules.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/16.png)



### Part 2: Extract your certificate

- Open the AD FS management UI. In the left sidebar, browse to: "Service > Certificates".

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/17.png)

- Click on the certificate under "Token-signing" to select it.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/18.png)

- Click "View Certificate..." In the Certificate dialog, go to the "Details" tab.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/19.png)

- In the "Details" tab, click "Copy to File..."

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/20.png)

- The Certificate Export Wizard appears. Click "Next".

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/21.png)

- Choose the radio button for: "Base-64 encoded X.509 (.CER)". Click "Next."

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/22.png)

- Choose where to save the certificate. Click "Next."

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/23.png)

- Review the "Completing the Certificate Export Wizard" information, then click "Finish."

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/24.png)

- Open the certificate file using a text editor, such as Notepad. You will need to copy/paste this next in the next part.

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/25.png)

### Part 3: Configure Sandstorm

- Open Sandstorm's SAML login configuration.

    - Under "SAML provider entry point URL", enter your AD FS login entry point. This is usually
      "/adfs/ls" at the host associated with your Active Directory server. For example, if your Active
      Directory server is ad.example.com, the URL would be: https://ad.example.com/adfs/ls

    - Under "SAML cert for above provider", copy the contents of the certificate you extracted in part
      2, above.

    - For the entity ID, keep the Sandstorm default, which is your server hostname. For example,
      example.sandcats.io. If you change this value, logins will not work until you resynchronize AD
      FS with Sandstorm's SAML metadata.

    - Finally, click "Save."

![Screenshot of this step](https://alpha-evgl4wnivwih0k6mzxt3.sandstorm.io/windows-server-ad-config/26.png)

This concludes setting up Windows Server Active Directory with Sandstorm! If you have any questions
or need further help, please email support@sandstorm.io! We'd be honored to work with you to get
your server set up properly.
