docs/administering/install-script.md, before:

This document covers **detailed technical documentation** on how to use `install.sh`.

## How to install Sandstorm

If you want to install Sandstorm now, you should probably read our [guide on how to install
Sandstorm](../install.md).

## Overview of the install process

The job of `install.sh` is to:

- Verify that this system has a Linux kernel version and CPU architecture compatible with Sandstorm,
  including verifying Linux kernel build-time options if needed.

- Download a binary copy of Sandstorm, also known as the [Sandstorm
  bundle](guide.md#sandstorm-itself), including verifying its signature.

- Create a directory to unpack that bundle, and unpack it there.

- If desired, request free dynamic DNS and/or HTTPS certificates from the Sandstorm company's own
  [sandcats.io](sandcats.md) service.

- Create a Sandstorm configuration file embodying the user's preferences on how this Sandstorm
  server should be configured, including enabling automatic updates if desired.

- If the user wants Sandstorm to start at boot, then also start Sandstorm as part of the install
  script.

- Ensure the user is able to configure login and other essential details on their Sandstorm server
  via a web interface, which includes the task of creating an [admin
  token](faq.md#how-do-i-log-in-if-there-s-a-problem-with-logging-in-via-the-web).

The install script can perform some other related tasks, but these are the core goals.

## Non-interactive installation

### Command-line flag to skip interactive prompts

If you run `install.sh -h`, you will see a message like:

```
usage: ./install.sh [-d] [-e] [-u] [<bundle>]
If <bundle> is provided, it must be the name of a Sandstorm bundle file,
like 'sandstorm-123.tar.xz', which will be installed. Otherwise, the script
downloads a bundle from the internet via HTTP.

If -d is specified, the auto-installs with defaults suitable for app development.
If -e is specified, default to listening on an external interface, not merely loopback.
If -i is specified, default to (i)nsecure mode where we do not request a HTTPS certificate.
If -u is specified, default to avoiding root priviliges. Note that the dev tools only work if the server as root privileges.
```

The `-d` option will use **defaults** for all options, creating a fully non-interactive install.  If
you provide that option by itself, you will get a `sandstorm.conf` configured to use:

- `BASE_URL=http://local.sandstorm.io:6080`
- `BIND_IP=127.0.0.1` (or `BIND_IP=0.0.0.0` if you pass `-e`)

and other defaults. One way to get a fully-automated install is to use `-d`, accept all defaults,
and stop Sandstorm, modify `/opt/sandstorm/sandstorm.conf` to your liking, and then start Sandstorm.

Another way is to request specific custom behavior from `install.sh`.

### Environment variables to request custom behavior

Over the time we have spent maintaining the install script, we hae found it easier to provide
user-provided configuration options from environment variables, rather than command line flags. Here
are some environment variables that `install.sh` can look for, and their meanings.

- `OVERRIDE_SANDSTORM_DEFAULT_DIR`: If you specify this, Sandstorm will install into this
  directory rather than `/opt/sandstorm` by default.

- `OVERRIDE_SANDSTORM_DEFAULT_SERVER_USER`: If you specify this, Sandstorm will use this username
  rather than a user account called `sandstorm`. This maps into the Sandstorm configuration file as
  `SERVER_USER`.

**Sandcats-specific environment variables.** Some environment variables are specifically about
controlling the install script's interaction with the [sandcats.io](sandcats.md) dynamic DNS and
free HTTPS certificate service.

- `DESIRED_SANDCATS_NAME`: The name of the the sandcats.io subdomain you would like to use for this install.

- `SANDCATS_DOMAIN_RESERVATION_TOKEN`: A token that indicates you have pre-reserved a sandcats.io subdomain.

- `OVERRIDE_SANDCATS_GETCERTIFICATE`: If you specify this as `no`, then Sandstorm will not bother
  requesting a HTTPS certificate from sandcats.io. The install script will prompt you about sandcats
  to ask if you want to use it for dynamic DNS.

- `OVERRIDE_SANDCATS_BASE_DOMAIN`: If you run a different instance of the sandcats.io software,
  adjust this variable.

- `REPORT`: This controls if install.sh should ask you to report an installation error to us. Set
  it to a non-`yes` value (e.g. `no`) if you want to disable that question. Most headless installations
  would want to set `REPORT=no`.

### Examples

To pass an environment variable to the Sandstorm installer, you can do as follows.

```bash
curl https://install.sandstorm.io/ > install.sh
sudo OVERRIDE_SANDSTORM_DEFAULT_DIR=/opt/sandstorm-is-awesome bash install.sh -d
```

This will install Sandstorm to `/opt/sandstorm-is-awesome` instead of the default directory.

To see examples of further customized installs, look at these tests within the Sandstorm installer
test suite.

- [Installation with a domain reservation code for sandcats.io](https://github.com/sandstorm-io/sandstorm/blob/master/installer-tests/full-server-install-with-domain-reservation-token.t)

- [Headless fully-automated install](https://github.com/sandstorm-io/sandstorm/blob/master/installer-tests/automatic-dev-install-on-jessie.t)

### Support level

If you rely on these environment variables for driving the Sandstorm installer, then consider
emailing the [sandstorm-dev Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/sandstorm-dev) to
make sure we understand your use-case.

In general, these are supported at a best-effort level. If we need to change something about how
these work, you will hear about it on the sandstorm-dev group.

### Automated test suite

The Sandstorm install script is covered by a (sometimes-flaky) automated test suite. You
can read more here:

- [README.md in installer-tests/](https://github.com/sandstorm-io/sandstorm/tree/master/installer-tests)

Commit message:

Explain that -d is development defaults
userns system-wide go

docs/administering/install-script.md, after:

This document covers **detailed technical documentation** on how to use `install.sh`.

## How to install Sandstorm

If you want to install Sandstorm now, you should probably read our [guide on how to install
Sandstorm](../install.md).

## Overview of the install process

The job of `install.sh` is to:

- Verify that this system has a Linux kernel version and CPU architecture compatible with Sandstorm,
  including verifying Linux kernel build-time options if needed.

- Download a binary copy of Sandstorm, also known as the [Sandstorm
  bundle](guide.md#sandstorm-itself), including verifying its signature.

- Create a directory to unpack that bundle, and unpack it there.

- If desired, request free dynamic DNS and/or HTTPS certificates from the Sandstorm company's own
  [sandcats.io](sandcats.md) service.

- Create a Sandstorm configuration file embodying the user's preferences on how this Sandstorm
  server should be configured, including enabling automatic updates if desired.

- If the user wants Sandstorm to start at boot, then also start Sandstorm as part of the install
  script.

- Ensure the user is able to configure login and other essential details on their Sandstorm server
  via a web interface, which includes the task of creating an [admin
  token](faq.md#how-do-i-log-in-if-there-s-a-problem-with-logging-in-via-the-web).

The install script can perform some other related tasks, but these are the core goals.

## Non-interactive installation

### Command-line flag to skip interactive prompts

If you run `install.sh -h`, you will see a message like:

```
usage: ./install.sh [-d] [-e] [-u] [<bundle>]
If <bundle> is provided, it must be the name of a Sandstorm bundle file,
like 'sandstorm-123.tar.xz', which will be installed. Otherwise, the script
downloads a bundle from the internet via HTTP.

If -d is specified, the auto-installs with defaults suitable for app development.
If -e is specified, default to listening on an external interface, not merely loopback.
If -i is specified, default to (i)nsecure mode where we do not request a HTTPS certificate.
If -u is specified, default to avoiding root priviliges. Note that the dev tools only work if the server as root privileges.
```

The `-d` option will use **development defaults** for all options, creating a fully non-interactive
install.  If you provide that option by itself, you will get a `sandstorm.conf` configured to use:

- `BASE_URL=http://local.sandstorm.io:6080`
- `BIND_IP=127.0.0.1` (or `BIND_IP=0.0.0.0` if you pass `-e`)

and other defaults optimized for app development. This includes enabling unprivileged user
namespaces system-wide if necessary. One way to get a fully-automated install is to use `-d`, accept
all defaults, and stop Sandstorm, modify `/opt/sandstorm/sandstorm.conf` to your liking, and then
start Sandstorm.

Another way is to request specific custom behavior from `install.sh`.

### Environment variables to request custom behavior

Over the time we have spent maintaining the install script, we hae found it easier to provide
user-provided configuration options from environment variables, rather than command line flags. Here
are some environment variables that `install.sh` can look for, and their meanings.

- `OVERRIDE_SANDSTORM_DEFAULT_DIR`: If you specify this, Sandstorm will install into this
  directory rather than `/opt/sandstorm` by default.

- `OVERRIDE_SANDSTORM_DEFAULT_SERVER_USER`: If you specify this, Sandstorm will use this username
  rather than a user account called `sandstorm`. This maps into the Sandstorm configuration file as
  `SERVER_USER`.

**Sandcats-specific environment variables.** Some environment variables are specifically about
controlling the install script's interaction with the [sandcats.io](sandcats.md) dynamic DNS and
free HTTPS certificate service.

- `DESIRED_SANDCATS_NAME`: The name of the the sandcats.io subdomain you would like to use for this install.

- `SANDCATS_DOMAIN_RESERVATION_TOKEN`: A token that indicates you have pre-reserved a sandcats.io subdomain.

- `OVERRIDE_SANDCATS_GETCERTIFICATE`: If you specify this as `no`, then Sandstorm will not bother
  requesting a HTTPS certificate from sandcats.io. The install script will prompt you about sandcats
  to ask if you want to use it for dynamic DNS.

- `OVERRIDE_SANDCATS_BASE_DOMAIN`: If you run a different instance of the sandcats.io software,
  adjust this variable.

- `REPORT`: This controls if install.sh should ask you to report an installation error to us. Set
  it to a non-`yes` value (e.g. `no`) if you want to disable that question. Most headless installations
  would want to set `REPORT=no`.

### Examples

To pass an environment variable to the Sandstorm installer, you can do as follows.

```bash
curl https://install.sandstorm.io/ > install.sh
sudo OVERRIDE_SANDSTORM_DEFAULT_DIR=/opt/sandstorm-is-awesome bash install.sh -d
```

This will install Sandstorm to `/opt/sandstorm-is-awesome` instead of the default directory.

To see examples of further customized installs, look at these tests within the Sandstorm installer
test suite.

- [Installation with a domain reservation code for sandcats.io](https://github.com/sandstorm-io/sandstorm/blob/master/installer-tests/full-server-install-with-domain-reservation-token.t)

- [Headless fully-automated install](https://github.com/sandstorm-io/sandstorm/blob/master/installer-tests/automatic-dev-install-on-jessie.t)

### Support level

If you rely on these environment variables for driving the Sandstorm installer, then consider
emailing the [sandstorm-dev Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/sandstorm-dev) to
make sure we understand your use-case.

In general, these are supported at a best-effort level. If we need to change something about how
these work, you will hear about it on the sandstorm-dev group.

### Automated test suite

The Sandstorm install script is covered by a (sometimes-flaky) automated test suite. You
can read more here:

- [README.md in installer-tests/](https://github.com/sandstorm-io/sandstorm/tree/master/installer-tests)
